<!-- loio0acb9032d24a46b5b4a5251202e08649 -->

# Basic Training \(TensorFlow Training Template\)

The Basic Training template provides a basic structure to use the Training operator to train TensorFlow models.



Training often involves one or more artifacts that represent the input datasets. It produces one or more output artifacts that represent the trained model or other generated data.

The `Training` operator can consume an input artifact in two ways:

-   Via an input port.
-   Via the `Artifacts` configuration

To produce an artifact for a trained model or other output data, you need to create an output port for the artifact on the `Training` operator.

This template illustrates a training case that involves two input artifacts and one output artifact. One of the input artifacts is consumed via the `Artifacts` configuration and the other is consumed via an input port.



<a name="loio0acb9032d24a46b5b4a5251202e08649__section_ff2_ljb_vmb"/>

## Configure and Run the Graph

1.  In your machine learning scenario, choose the *Pipelines* tab.

2.  Choose *Create* to create a new pipeline.

3.  Enter a name for your pipeline and select the *Basic Training* pipeline template from the drop-down list.

4.  Choose *Create*.

5.  Click the created pipeline to open the Modeler.

6.  Modify the pipeline in the Modeler to fit your own training case. This involves:

    -   Configuring input and output artifacts.

        If all input artifacts for the training have been created already, you can delete the input port `inputdata2` and modify the `Artifacts` configuration of the `Training` operator to use the existing artifacts.

        If no input artifacts have been created and you want to incorporate artifact creation into the current pipeline, you can use `Artifact Producer` operators to create artifacts. Specifically, you add an input port to the `Training` operator for each of the input artifacts. You then link the `outArtifact` output port of an `Artifact Producer` to the input port for the corresponding artifact on the `Training` operator. For more information, see [Artifact Producer](https://help.sap.com/viewer/9182d964573745e89f523395d7c43e53/Dev/en-US/9b8b01884a1e47c9a925e350fcc6b97f.html "The Artifact Producer operator registers the artifact (dataset, model or other) given as input and returns the artifact's generated ID.") :arrow_upper_right:. The `Artifacts` configuration in the `Training` operator in the template can be empty.

        It is also possible to use existing input artifacts and create new ones at the same time.

        For each artifact to be generated by the training, create an output port on the `Training` operator.

    -   Replacing the script of the `Training` operator in the template with your own training script

        Adding other operators to the pipeline if needed


7.  When you have finished making your changes, save the graph.

    Go back to *ML Scenario Manager*, select your pipeline from the list, and click *Execute*.




<a name="loio0acb9032d24a46b5b4a5251202e08649__section_grn_rkb_vmb"/>

## Managing Artifacts in Training

You can use the Python SDK `sapdi` to manage artifacts in the training script.

```py
import sapdi
from sapdi.artifact import ArtifactKind, ArtifactFileType
```



<a name="loio0acb9032d24a46b5b4a5251202e08649__section_j5y_rkb_vmb"/>

## Consuming Input Artifacts

```py
artifact_1 = sapdi.get_artifact(artifact_alias="inputdata1")
artifact_2 = sapdi.get_artifact(artifact_alias="inputdata2")
```



<a name="loio0acb9032d24a46b5b4a5251202e08649__section_jvh_skb_vmb"/>

## Creating an Artifact for the Trained Model

```py
out_artifact = sapdi.create_artifact(
artifact_alias="model", 
file_type=ArtifactFileType.ZIP,
artifact_kind=ArtifactKind.MODEL,
description="Best model ever",
artifact_name="image_classification"
)
```

